Hi.
We didn't this lecture we going to see how we can delete this name and birthday information that we
have saved in the user defaults.
So far we have been saving this and it works right now.
I will add a delete button to my means storyboard so that when a user taps on this button our data in
the user defaults will be deleted.
So I am going to add another button over here.
Okay.
Right next to save button and I'm going to name this delete.
Yeah.
So let me make this a little bit bigger okay and then align it.
And I believe that's OK.
So right now I'm going to go for the constraints.
And we have given constraints but now we added the new view right.
So we have to give one more time so I'm going to say clear constraints.
I'm going to go over and say reset to suggested constraints.
Of course you could have just said add missing constraints as well.
So let me open the assistant editor over here and choose.
We have controller that's fifth in here.
I'm going to take this delete button and define it as an action in my view controller that's Swift.
So hold control and drag and drop.
Now I'm going to call this delete clicked.
So now we're ready.
So let me close this and let me go to we've controller that Swift.
So what do we want to do here.
I want to remove this value from the user defaults right.
And it's actually very basic.
So you have to just go like this user defaults that Senate that remove objects and you can just give
the key like name birthday and that's all.
That's all you had to do to delete the value from user defaults.
OK but of course before we do that I believe the basic safety precautions will be good years so I'm
going to check to see if those values are not existing or not.
OK.
So let me just define these variables one more time.
So let's start.
Name user defaults.
That's standard.
That object.
OK.
And the object that we're looking for has the key name and we're going to do the same thing for birthday
as well.
So I'm going to say surge birthday.
So this is good.
We know this far.
Right now I'm going to check to see if this can be casted as a string.
So how do we do that.
Of course we do.
If that new name Saad name.
So this is optional any and I'm going to try and cast this as an optional string.
And if this works out I'm going to remove this object so I can cut this and paste over here.
And the reason that I'm doing this from the scratch not copying and pasting to show you this as you
can see it says that you created a variable called Name name but you have never even used it.
So if you're not going to use this new name at all you can replace this line as this surname as string
is not nil.
OK.
So this will do the same thing if I say fix and you will see that it's third name casted as a string
is not nil.
So it basically means that if we can do that then just go and remove this name object.
So you know the difference between nil and an empty street.
Right.
So we have talked about this.
And if it if it's not nil it means that I have saved something so I can remove it safely if it's nil
then I must I can I may have some difficulties removing it I may crash the app and I don't want it to
happen.
So I'm trying to understand if this is nil or not.
And before we did if that thing because we casted this as a variable and we used that variable right
now we're not using that variable so we can do the same thing.
As for birthday as well.
So I'm going to remove birthday object from here.
So that's it's we're controlling if this exists and we're controlling if we can remove it.
If it's nil or not.
So later all I'm going to just say a name labeled up tax name birthday label dog tags birthday.
So I'm going to reset the labels as well.
And in here we're just assigning these to be new name rather I'm going to go for this name.
Okay.
A reverse slash and open parentheses close parentheses So remember that's how we actually use variables
inside of strings.
OK.
So I believe now this is consistent and this is gonna work.
So let's try this.
Let's run this in our simulator.
Right.
Right now I have a values chart right Dave.
And the birthday.
So when I open this.
Yes.
This is now showing up.
If I hit delete button it will delete these values from here.
So in order to check if we deleted them from the user defaults as though I'm going to just close this
and the run one more time if we see an empty label then it's working.
If we see David again it's not working.
As you can see we have a name to label over here so deleting works.
Okay.
So now you know how to work with user defaults in order to save small data in user defaults database.
If you're going to store some 2000 people or some hundred people in the database then this is not going
to be practical for you in order to do that.
We going to learn something called core data but we're not going to learn it's for until like four or
five sections but we learn it.
You're going to be working on real databases.
We're going to stop here and we're going to continue for IRS advanced options IRS Advanced Structures
in the next lecture.